Zhao Xinghua Male
Current Company: 中国石油集团长城钻探工程有限公司
Current Title: 审计主管\项目主审 Year to work: 14Years
Personal Information
Age: 36 Marital Status: Single
Mobile: 13601126823 Email: allanzhaoxh@hotmail.com
Nationality: China Hukou: BeiJing
Current Status: On job, open for new job Present Locus: BeiJing
Career Preference
Expected Industry: Securities/Futures/Investment Funds;Accounting/Auditing;Professional Services
(Consult/Accounting/Legal/Translate)
Expected Position: Audit Manager/Supervisor;Chief Financial Officer;Executive Assistant/General
Manager Assistant
Expected Location: BeiJing;ShenZhen;Australia
Expect Salary: Negotiable
Current Salary: 421.6 K 35,133 Yuan / Month * 12 Months
Work Experience
2009.08-Now CNPC Greatwall Drilling Company
Type of Company: State-owned Enterprise
Size of Company: More than 10000
Industry: Rock oil/Chemical Industry
Master Auditor 2009.08-Now
Company Locations: BeiJing
Department: Internal Audit Department
Reports To: CAE
Subordinate: 4
Responsibilities &
Achievement:
Responsible for management risk, financial revenue and expenditure, internal
control, cost effectiveness and off-office audits for subsidiaries and branches at
home abroad. As the master auditor, I formulated the relevant audit programs,
coordinated members of the audit team to complete field audit jointly, compiled
audit reports and followed up corrective actions based on the audit, presented
audit recommendations related to risk aversion, internal control process
improvement, and cost control, etc., assisted the company management in
decision-making, and avoided funding, asset and tax risks for the company to
guarantee its management benefit. Specifics of my work is as follows.
I. Internal Control Process Check whether various business procedures of
overseas subsidiaries and branches conform to COSO Internal Control-Integrated
Framework, and offer recommendations for improvement of businesses not up to
internal control requirements. Check whether there exists any business not
included in the internal control process and put forward internal control process
design suggestions to avoid losing control over internal management.
Assist the overseas subsidiaries and branches in constructing internal control
systems, define control activities different functional departments are accountable
for and examination and approval responsibilities at all levels, and perfect internal
supervision and counterbalance of the company.
Disclose internal control situations in the unit under auditing and the fact whether
the existing internal control process of this unit comes into play in the audit report
submitted to the company management; and, propose suggestions for further
improvement.
II. Risk Prevention and Control
Perform risk assessment for overseas subsidiaries and branches invested in by the
parent company and propose risk aversion suggestions. Analyze various contents
investigated at the earlier phase of operating projects and evaluate whether
overseas operational risks have been completely covered.
Collect and study all kinds of local laws and regulations and then compare them
with project operation status to find whether the project operation goes against
such laws and regulations. Evaluate whether the tax planning is legal and
reasonable and there exists any planning means that can be classified as tax
evasion. Targeted at engineering projects to be implemented, perform risk
forecast, find potential shortfall risks and present reasonable suggestions for
controllable and preventable risks.
III. Financial Information
Supervise authenticity of financial information and analyze whether the financial
statement completely and accurately reflects the state of operation. According to
detail financial information required for different operation projects in diverse
countries, present reasonable suggestions for financial data collection and
guarantee that financial information serves as a favorable support for operation
management decisions.
IV. Cost Effectiveness
Supervise effectiveness of all cost expenditures during operation, evaluate the
effectiveness and reasonability of cost reduction approaches and determine
whether there exist wastes or phenomena of cheating in work and cut down
material or not. Audit whether raw material purchase costs and various
sub-contracting costs in each subsidiary and branch conform to market-set prices,
check whether negligence in work or any corrupt practice takes place, and
guarantee that reasonable costs are maintained during running of the company
and a good economic benefit can be achieved.
V. Supervision of Fraud
Stay alert to clues for potential fraud in the course of audit, perform narrow
inspection on potential behaviors violating the law or the regulation and analyze
the possibility of occurrence of fraud, and examine the existing environment of
control, supervision and comprehensive evaluation control. Besides, I should also
report fraud that had been proven by solid evidences to the company
management.
Second Prize for CNPC Excellent Audit Project: Operating management audit for a
joint venture company in Kazakhstan
Third Prize for CNPC Excellent Audit Project: Off-office audit for XXX, the original
manager of a logging branch company inAlgeria; Off-office audit for XXX, the
original manager of a branch company in Columbia; Off-office audit for XXX, the
original manager of a branch company in Canada; Off-office audit for XXX, the
original manager of the Integrated Project Department in the Niger.
In 2011, I independently wrote Brief Analysis on Financial Information Distortion
and Operational Risks in Overseas Projects of Petroleum companies that focused
on authenticity of financial information, system construction and external
operational risk prevention and control, etc. according to my own experience in
overseas financial and audit work. The paper was awarded with the First Prize of
Excellent Auditing Paper from CIIA Petroleum Branch, the First Prize of Excellent
Innovative (ministerial level of the industry) Paper of the 17th National Petroleum
and Petrochemical Enterprise Management Modernization of China Petroleum
Enterprise Association, and the Third Prize of 2011 Excellent Auditing Paper from
CIIA Cooperative Group of Petroleum and Petrochemical Marine Oil. It was
published on China Petroleum Audit in No. 4, April 2011.
I also independently wrote another paper named as Reflections on Cash Flow
Based Performance Evaluation System about Overseas Engineering Service
Projects in 2016, which won the Second Prize of Excellent Auditing Paper from
CIIA Petroleum Branch.
2005.08-2009.08 CNPC Greatwall Drilling Company
Type of Company: State-owned Enterprise
Size of Company: More than 10000
Industry: Rock oil/Chemical Industry
Financial Manager of Branch Company 2005.08-2009.08
Salary: 43901 Yuan / Month
Company Locations: Mexico
Department: Branch Company
Reports To: CEO of Branch Company
Subordinate: 5
Responsibilities &
Responsible for financial accounting, operating data analysis, tax planning, project
Achievement:
fund recovery and internal operation assessment, etc. for overseas subsidiaries.
Specifics of my work is as follows.
I. Financial Management Data Collection and Analysis
Collect financial data reasonably according to demands of operating management
and provide financial data analysis for operating decisions made by the general
manager; judge the cost-income ratio of key projects needing attention and offer
suggestions for the general manager to take effective measures to guarantee
profits gained from such projects.
II. Tax Planning
Pay close attention to historical changes of local tax laws and take sound tax
planning approaches according to project cost composition; establish a smooth
consultation and communication relation with the tax bureau to guarantee that
these approaches follow local tax laws.
III. Internal Operation Assessment
Perform operation assessment for all subordinate engineering brigades according
to internal operation assessment standards stipulated by the parent company;
improve internal operation assessment system of the company in line with
concrete situations of the project; make internal operation assessment play a
positive role in business development in diverse departments and engineering
brigades and by employees.
IV. Project Fund Recovery
Recheck calculation of invoice prices, standardize the slip signature process with
service supplier, and ensure timely issuance of invoices to carry out the settlement
of the contract works. So as to provide the guarantee for operational cash flows;
keep a watchful eye on the exchange rate on the date of receipt and communicate
with the service supplier to reduce exchange losses.
During my tenure, I found that domestic reimbursement refinance gave rise to
negative growth of income tax in this Mexican subsidiary; thus, I suggested to the
company that the business process should be adjusted. As a result, about RMB 2
million could be deducted from the income tax of the company each year.
Assist Marketing Department of the company in tender calculation, provide
financial data analysis and guarantee Engineering Contract concluded to gain
profits.
2004.07-2005.08 CNPC Greatwall Drilling Company
Type of Company: State-owned Enterprise
Size of Company: More than 10000
Industry: Rock oil/Chemical Industry
Assistant Auditor 2004.07-2005.08
Company Locations: BeiJing
Department: Internal Audit Department
Reports To: Master Auditor
Subordinate: 0
Responsibilities & Participate into operating management audit projects in Singapore, Mexico and
Achievement: Venezuela, etc. as an internal auditor.
2003.07-2004.07 CNPC Greatwall Drilling Company
Type of Company: State-owned Enterprise
Size of Company: More than 10000
Industry: Rock oil/Chemical Industry
Accountant 2003.07-2004.07
Company Locations: BeiJing
Department: Financial Department
Reports To: Financial Manager
Subordinate: 0
Responsibilities &
Responsible for teller and financial accounting, etc. in Finance Section of the
Achievement:
company headquarter so that fundamental financial work experience has been
accumulated and a conscientious work style cultivated.
Educational Experience
University of International Business & Ecnomics (1999.09 - 2003.07)
Major: Accounting Degree: Bachelor Full-time school: Yes
Languages
English(CET6)、Mandarin
Project Experience
Internal control process failure in investment and financial information
fraud of a subsidiary in North America
2017.05-2017.06
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: It was found during audit that internal control process over an investment of about
RMB 0.513 billion in a subsidiary of North America failed, such as over-quota external
procurement not examined or approved by the company headquarters and projects
not performing normal acceptance check procedures, etc.. In addition, the subsidiary
also took advantage of related transactions among subordinate holding companies to
inflate assets, income and profits, in which case there existed financial information
distortion and fraud situations. As certified by audit, cash flow of such an investment
project will be negative in a long time in the future falling into the category of
investment blunder.
Internal control process improvement of a subsidiary in China 2016.03-2016.04
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: It was found during audit that a key internal control process was absent in a
subsidiary, great decisions were lacking in mutual supervision and limitation,
company businesses were outsourced getting out of line without authorization, which
caused the company to loss a profit of about RMB 5.7 million; in addition, there may
also exist possibilities of fraud.
According to standard internal control process of the company headquarters, I
suggested to this subsidiary that a perfect business process should be designed again
and job responsibilities and rights be defined. As a result, not only was internal
control of it strengthened, but safety of assets and funds was guaranteed.
Gas filling card interest arbitrage investigation for a sales company in a
province of China
2015.08-2015.09
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: As appointed by the company, I assisted China National Petroleum Audit Service
Center in executing economic responsibility audit in a province. It was found that
some petrol station assistants took advantage of discounts for gas filling cards to
perform arbitrage behaviors and some gas stations even assisted other enterprises in
illegal withdrawal of cash.
Recovery of extra funds paid to the service supplier by a subsidiary in a
country of East Africa
2014.09-2014.10
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: In 2014, middle term accountability audit was carried out for the general manager of
this subsidiary. Through conversations with employees, accounting investigations and
logistics department information examinations, special attention was paid to a local
service supplier. After scrutiny, an extra amount of about RMB 3.8 million was found
to be paid to this supplier when compared with actual workload figured out in line
with the contract so that fund recovery audit opinion was presented for this
subsidiary. Finally, such an amount of money was recovered from this service supplier
in a form of debit note.
Loss investigation, latent loss calculation and fraud investigation for a
subsidiary in a country of South America
2013.03-2013.04
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: At the beginning of 2013, it was proven by financial statement of an overseas
subsidiary that a substantial amount of losses had occurred. The company
management appointed three people from its audit division to investigate the cause
and predict corresponding latent losses. Within 1 month, audit survey was carried out
by an audit team for operating management, local tax payment, raw material
management and expenditure contracts, etc.. In the end, a detailed report was made
for reasons on deficit. Dependent on management conditions at that time,
accumulated deficit of the subsidiary was estimated to be about RMB 0.5 billion
(material inventory could not be settled due to technology and time). Up to the
closure of such a subsidiary, the actual cumulative loss reached RMB 0.53 billion
(including RMB 0.03 billion of condemned material costs), which was in basic
consistency with the predicted loss.
The audit was involved with fraud investigation. By evidence collection, fraud
conditions were reported to the management of company headquarters. Now, two
persons have received internal notifications for general information from the
headquarters, while another one has been transferred to the judicial organ to be dealt
with according to relevant laws.
Fraud and cash-out behavior investigation on financial staff of a
subsidiary in a country of Central Asia
2012.06-2012.07
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: In the course of 2012 audit, chief financial officer and financial manager of the
subsidiary was found to take advantage of false balance of accounting incurred during
the financial information system upgrade to illegally withdraw RMB 0.9297 million. For
this, an audit opinion was also issued and it was suggested that the relevant persons
should be transferred to the discipline inspection authority to be dealt with.
Financial information distortion in a joint venture company in a country
of Central Asia
2011.09-2011.10
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: During audit aimed at a joint venture company in Central Asia in 2011, it was found
that a subordinate holding company of it imported devices and materials from foreign
countries and then sold them to this joint venture by raising the corresponding
customs declaration price; in this way, profits were gained in this holding company.
Considering that both income and assets were not real, financial information
distortion must exist to a certain extent, which exerted an adverse impact on
operating decision-making of the company management.
Illegal equipment import in a subsidiary in a country of North Africa 2010.05-2010.06
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: During audit aimed at this subsidiary in 2010, entry and exit manners as well as
management situations of plant assets in this subsidiary were in chaos. As stipulated
by local laws and regulations, no subsidiary was permitted to import equipment by
means of temporary entry; however, some plants of it were imported in a temporary
manner in the name of its other subordinate branches, which gave rise to income and
cost separation and could be defined as tax evasion.
As suggested by audit, the company headquarters took the initiative to help this
subsidiary actively communicate with local customs and tax department; as a result,
part of fines was exempted.
Tax evasion risk of a subsidiary in a country of West Asia 2009.11-2009.12
Project Position: Master Auditor
Description: In 2009 audit, income and tax and fee accounting of a subsidiary in a country of West
Asia were found to go against the International Accounting Standards; in this
subsidiary, income confirmation was postponed to reduce local corporate income
taxes that should be paid. In addition, poor accounting information quality failed to
satisfy requirements of operating decision-making. During audit, detailed guidance
was put forward for strengthening the financial accounting level and the subsidiary
was instructed to not evade taxes in any means.
Bank account freezing crisis of a Mexican subsidiary 2006.08-2006.12
Project Position: Financial Manager
Description: At the very beginning of the establishment of a Mexican subsidiary in 2003, it was
fined by the local tax audit due to excessively radical tax planning means adopted. In
2006, the subsidiary was notified by the tax bureau that its bank account would be
frozen so that it was confronted with a risk of cash flow discontinuity.
As a Chinese financial manager of the subsidiary, I withstood the corresponding
pressure and took two measures. First, funds in the bank account were remitted into
that of a local joint venture held by the parent company in a form of external loan as
proved by the company headquarters in China, to avoid the discontinuity of
operational cash flows. Second, through communication with the tax bureau and oil
and gas company of Party A, a solution was developed by negotiation. Finally, the tax
bureau selected to transfer project funds from this company of Party A to fluently
settle the associated capital risks.
Self-description
In terms of financial information. I am good at management accounting and able to assist enterprises in
improving financial data application levels and meeting quality requirements for financial information.
In terms of management and risk control. I have a keen insight into enterprise management and operating
risks and adept in discovering various risks. Therefore, I am capable of assisting the company in stanching
management loopholes, perfecting internal control, standardizing business process and winning the potential
economic benefits.
In terms of international experience. I am familiar with management and operation in transnational
enterprises, have a profound understanding of and rich experience in related transactions, transfer pricing
andproperty operating, and can rapidly understand tax administration and business environment in the host
country to avoid overseas tax risks.
I can preferably understand and accept different kinds of social culture and have implemented more than 30
audit projects for overseas subsidiaries and branches as well as over 20 audit projects for subsidiaries and
branches in China.
Additional Info
2012-2014 CNPC Advanced Individual; Intermediate auditor title; 2 papers published winning ministerial-level
awards of the industry
Business scope of the company I am working in covers petroleum engineering operations and design,
international trade, product manufacture and oil and gas resource investment, etc.
Comparing with proximity to the industry involved, coincidence of management philosophy and values, etc.
between the enterprise and employees is more important and the job I am seeking is not confined to the
petrochemical industry.